Fix constraint sensitivities and LCOE drivers discussion; rewrite QP convexity appendix (#189)
symbiotic-engineering/MDOcean: pubs/applied-ocean-research-model/sections/other-appendices.tex

While the earlier circle-circle intersections \cref{eq:candidate-points} result in a quadratic equation that is solved analytically for the coordinates of $\Gamma$, oval-circle intersections lead to quartic equations that are solved numerically with standard polynomial root-finding routines.
We currently assume there is only one apparent power constraint, so oval-oval intersections are not derived, but if present would likewise yield a fourth-order polynomial in $\Gamma$.

\subsubsection{Extension to Higher Dimensions and Convexity}

> Future work may desire to perform constrained optimization on the full nonlinear dynamics rather than the linearized dynamics, or for linear dynamics with irregular wave forcing as \cite{bacelli_numerical_2015} does, in what would be known as nonlinear and linear spectral optimal control respectively in the terminology of \cref{fig:venn-diagram}.

Reviewer: term from venn  diagram: deleted without moving

Both of these problems solve the full harmonic-balance equation, which means that the problem is higher dimensional and may not admit a geometric analytical solution as is possible for the 2D case here.
In such cases, the efficiency of the numerical solution strongly depends on the convexity of the problem.

A quadratic program is convex when the objective function is convex (i.e. $\mathbf{A}_P$ is positive semidefinite) and all inequality constraints are convex (i.e. $\mathbf{Q}_{\mu}$ are positive semidefinite, $S_\mu=1$), and non-convex otherwise.
$\mathbf{A}_P$ (value given in \cref{tab:power-metrics}) is unfortunately non-convex, with eigenvalues $\{-1, 1\}$, but \cite{bacelli_numerical_2015} shows that by substituting a linear dynamics equality constraint into the objective, as \cref{eq:obj-gamma} does, the objective becomes convex, even for irregular waves.
Nonlinear dynamics and nonlinear constraints may introduce non-convexity.

> Convex constraints can be written in terms of a linear matrix inequality.

Reviewer: start deleted without moving

Specifically, in a problem with $N_{var}$ decision variables $x$, a polynomial inequality constraint of degree $d$ is convex if it can be expressed as the sum of squares of rational polynomials, or equivalently, as the positive-definiteness of a matrix $\mathbf{F} \in \mathbb{R}^{d \times d}\succ 0$, where each element of the matrix is affine in the decision variables, $\mathbf{F} = \mathbf{F}_0 + \sum_{j=1}^{N_{var}} x_j \mathbf{F}_j$.

> All linear constraints can be written in this form, as can ellipsoidal constraints, system stability and passivity constraints, algebraic Ricatti inequalities, and worst-case performance constraints such as the maximum gain over all frequencies, but not all quadratic or quartic constraints as are required for WEC optimal control.

Reviewer: end deleted wo moving

> Both of these cases solve the full harmonic-balance equation, so the problem dimension grows with the number of frequencies and the geometric analytical solution used here is no longer practical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both of these cases solve the full harmonic-balance equation, so the problem dimension grows with the number of frequencies and the geometric analytical solution used here is no longer possible.
```

> For WEC optimal control, where the problem dimension equals twice the number of frequencies retained in the spectral expansion, this polynomial scaling is essential.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For WEC optimal control across frequencies, where the problem dimension equals twice the number of frequencies retained in the spectral expansion, this computational efficiency is highly advantageous.
```

After reducing to the $\Gamma$ parameterization, the power objective $|\Gamma|^2$ is a sum of squares and therefore convex.
Even though the original power matrix $\mathbf{A}_P$ (see \cref{tab:power-metrics}) has eigenvalues $\{-1,1\}$ and is indefinite, \cite{bacelli_numerical_2015} shows that substituting the linear dynamics equality constraint into the objective---which is exactly what the reduction to $\Gamma$ in \cref{eq:obj-gamma} accomplishes---renders the objective convex for both regular and irregular wave forcing.
Nonlinear dynamics can reintroduce non-convexity and should be checked on a case-by-case basis.

The inequality constraints are more problematic.
A constraint is convex if the set of points satisfying it forms a convex region.
In the $\Gamma$ plane, a convex constraint corresponds to a circle whose feasible region is the \emph{interior} ($S_\mu=1$ in \cref{eq:disc-constraint}), while a non-convex constraint corresponds to a circle whose feasible region is the \emph{exterior} ($S_\mu=-1$).

> Effort-magnitude constraints (e.g., force limits $|\hat{F}|\leq F_{max}$) map to circles with exterior feasible regions and are therefore non-convex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Constraints on the effort and flow magnitude (e.g., force limits $|\hat{F}|\leq F_{max}$) can be convex or non-convex, depending on the complex angle of the Th\'{e}venin equivalent impedance of the relevant source impedance and on the ratio of the constraint limit to its unconstrained value.
```

> Amplitude constraints similarly yield non-convex regions for some sea states, as visualized in \cite{mccabe_force-limited_2024}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference \cite{mccabe_force-limited_2024} visualizes the feasible regions for families of such constraints on the complex $\Gamma$ plane. 
It shows that the constraints are always convex for purely real impedances; that for reactive plants, nonconvexities occur when the value of the constraint limit exceeds some threshold; and that this threshold lowers as the reactivity increases.
```

The quadratic matrices $\mathbf{Q}$ in \cref{tab:qp-constraints} confirm this: $\mathbf{A}_{|\hat{q}|^2}$ and $\mathbf{A}_{|\hat{e}|^2}$ are only positive \emph{semi}definite, indicating constraints that define half-spaces rather than bounded ellipsoids.
For the 2D problem studied here, non-convexity is handled by the exhaustive enumeration of candidate points in \cref{eq:gamma-opt-quadratic}, which is efficient in two dimensions but does not scale to higher dimensions.

> Future work should investigate semidefinite relaxations of these non-convex constraints using the S-procedure \cite{vanantwerp_tutorial_2000}, which replaces each non-convex constraint with a conservative but convex outer approximation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Future work should investigate semidefinite relaxations of these non-convex constraints using the S-procedure \cite{vanantwerp_tutorial_2000}, which replaces each non-convex constraint with a conservative but convex outer approximation.
It is expected that the optimal design will have low reactivity because reactivity increases signal peak-to-average ratios, implying that a semi-definite relaxation would likely improve in accuracy as it approaches the optimal.
```

Reference \cite{mccabe_force-limited_2024} uses Smith charts to show constraints directly in $\Gamma$ space as we do here, while Ref.~\cite{merigaud_geometrical_2023} works in the complex plane of the hydrodynamic transmission coefficient and Ref.~\cite{bacelli_geometric_2013} in that of the PTO force.
Reference \cite{bacelli_geometric_2013} also extends the formulation to capture higher harmonics (nonsinusoidal forces), where the exact constraint cannot be easily represented geometrically but sufficient conditions for constraint violation and satisfaction in the higher dimensional space can be represented as hyperspheres and hyperellipsoids.

\subsection{Constraint Sensitivity Analysis via Parametric Programming}
\label{sec:appendix-constraint-sensitivity}

> To support the discussion in \cref{sec:discussion}, this section derives the scaling of optimal average power with the constraint limits and demonstrates its convexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support the discussion in \cref{sec:discussion}, this section derives the scaling of optimal average power with the constraint limits and demonstrates its conditions for convexity.
```
